appengine-standard-java8/springboot-appengine-standard/README.md, before:

HelloWorld for App Engine Standard (Java 8)
============================

This sample demonstrates how to deploy a Spring Boot application on Google App Engine.

See the [Google App Engine standard environment documentation][ae-docs] for more
detailed instructions.

[ae-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/java/


* [Java 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi) (at least 3.5)
* [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) (aka gcloud)

## Setup

    gcloud init
    gcloud auth application-default login
    gcloud components update

## Maven
### Running locally

    mvnw appengine:run

### Deploying

To deploy to the project currently set in `gcloud`:

    mvnw appengine:deploy
    
To deploy to a specific project:

    mvnw appengine:deploy -Dapp.deploy.project=PROJECT_ID

## Testing

    mvnw verify
 
As you add / modify the source code (`src/main/java/...`) it's very useful to add [unit testing](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/java/tools/localunittesting)
to (`src/main/test/...`).  The following resources are quite useful:

* [Junit4](http://junit.org/junit4/)
* [Mockito](http://mockito.org/)
* [Truth](http://google.github.io/truth/)

## Steps to convert a Spring Boot application for App Engine Standard
### Use the WAR packaging
You must use WAR packaging to deploy into Google App Engine Standard.

If you generate a Spring Boot project from [start.spring.io](http://start.spring.io/),
make sure you *switch to the full version* view of the initializer site, and select *WAR*
packaging.

If you have an existing `JAR` packaging project, you can convert it into a `WAR` project by:
1. In `pom.xml`, change `<packaging>jar</packaging>` to `<packaging>war</packaging>`
1. Create a new `SpringBootServletInitializer` implementation:

```java
public class ServletInitializer extends SpringBootServletInitializer {
  @Override
  protected SpringApplicationBuilder configure(SpringApplicationBuilder application) {
  return application.sources(YourApplication.class);
  }
}
```

### Remove Tomcat Starter
Google App Engine Standard deploys your `WAR` into a Jetty server. Spring Boot's starter
includes Tomcat by default. This will introduce conflicts. Exclude Tomcat dependencies:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
  <exclusions>
    <exclusion>
      <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-tomcat</artifactId>
    </exclusion>
  </exclusions>
</dependency>
```

Do not include the Jetty dependencies. But you must include Servlet API dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>javax.servlet</groupId>
  <artifactId>javax.servlet-api</artifactId>
  <version>3.1.0</version>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Add App Engine Standard Plugin
In the `pom.xml`, add the App Engine Standard plugin:
```xml
<plugin>
  <groupId>com.google.cloud.tools</groupId>
  <artifactId>appengine-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>1.3.1</version>
</plugin>
```

This plugin is used to run local development server as well as deploying the application
into Google App Engine.

### Add App Engine Configuration
Add a `src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml`:
```xml
<appengine-web-app xmlns="http://appengine.google.com/ns/1.0">
  <version>1</version>
  <threadsafe>true</threadsafe>
  <runtime>java8</runtime>
</appengine-web-app>
```

This configure is required for applications running in Google App Engine.

### Exclude JUL to SLF4J Bridge
Spring Boot's default logging bridge conflicts with Jetty's logging system.
To be able to capture the Spring Boot startup logs, you need to exclude
`org.slf4j:jul-to-slf4j` dependency.  The easiest way to do this is to
set the dependency scope to `provided`, so that it won't be included in
the `WAR` file:

```xml
<!-- Exclude any jul-to-slf4j -->
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
  <artifactId>jul-to-slf4j</artifactId>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

Commit message:

Feedback from Ludo
1. All projects use Cloud SDK tooling except
2. helloworld-gae-javasdk-tools (which uses the GAE Java tooling)
3. Update README’s for all of this
4. manually deploy all use cases.
5. Add maven wrapper to HelloWorlds

appengine-standard-java8/springboot-appengine-standard/README.md, after:

SpringBoot HelloWorld for App Engine Standard (Java 8)
============================

This sample demonstrates how to deploy a Spring Boot application on Google App Engine.

See the [Google App Engine standard environment documentation][ae-docs] for more
detailed instructions.

[ae-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/java/

* [Java 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi) (at least 3.5)
* [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) (aka gcloud command line tool)

## Setup

* Download and initialize the [Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/)

    `gcloud init`

* Create an App Engine app within the current Google Cloud Project

    `gcloud app create`

## Maven
### Running locally

`mvn appengine:run`

To use vist: http://localhost:8080/

### Deploying

`mvn appengine:deploy`

To use vist:  https://YOUR-PROJECT-ID.appspot.com

## Testing

`mvn verify`

As you add / modify the source code (`src/main/java/...`) it's very useful to add [unit testing](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/java/tools/localunittesting)
to (`src/main/test/...`).  The following resources are quite useful:

* [Junit4](http://junit.org/junit4/)
* [Mockito](http://mockito.org/)
* [Truth](http://google.github.io/truth/)


For further information, consult the
[Java App Engine](https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/overview) documentation.

## Steps to convert a Spring Boot application for App Engine Standard
### Use the WAR packaging
You must use WAR packaging to deploy into Google App Engine Standard.

If you generate a Spring Boot project from [start.spring.io](http://start.spring.io/),
make sure you *switch to the full version* view of the initializer site, and select *WAR*
packaging.

If you have an existing `JAR` packaging project, you can convert it into a `WAR` project by:
1. In `pom.xml`, change `<packaging>jar</packaging>` to `<packaging>war</packaging>`
1. Create a new `SpringBootServletInitializer` implementation:

```java
public class ServletInitializer extends SpringBootServletInitializer {
  @Override
  protected SpringApplicationBuilder configure(SpringApplicationBuilder application) {
  return application.sources(YourApplication.class);
  }
}
```

### Remove Tomcat Starter
Google App Engine Standard deploys your `WAR` into a Jetty server. Spring Boot's starter
includes Tomcat by default. This will introduce conflicts. Exclude Tomcat dependencies:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
  <exclusions>
    <exclusion>
      <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-tomcat</artifactId>
    </exclusion>
  </exclusions>
</dependency>
```

Do not include the Jetty dependencies. But you must include Servlet API dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>javax.servlet</groupId>
  <artifactId>javax.servlet-api</artifactId>
  <version>3.1.0</version>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Add App Engine Standard Plugin
In the `pom.xml`, add the App Engine Standard plugin:
```xml
<plugin>
  <groupId>com.google.cloud.tools</groupId>
  <artifactId>appengine-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>1.3.1</version>
</plugin>
```

This plugin is used to run local development server as well as deploying the application
into Google App Engine.

### Add App Engine Configuration
Add a `src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml`:
```xml
<appengine-web-app xmlns="http://appengine.google.com/ns/1.0">
  <version>1</version>
  <threadsafe>true</threadsafe>
  <runtime>java8</runtime>
</appengine-web-app>
```

This configure is required for applications running in Google App Engine.

### Exclude JUL to SLF4J Bridge
Spring Boot's default logging bridge conflicts with Jetty's logging system.
To be able to capture the Spring Boot startup logs, you need to exclude
`org.slf4j:jul-to-slf4j` dependency.  The easiest way to do this is to
set the dependency scope to `provided`, so that it won't be included in
the `WAR` file:

```xml
<!-- Exclude any jul-to-slf4j -->
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
  <artifactId>jul-to-slf4j</artifactId>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```
